In this video, we're going to discuss how to multiply matrices.
So the basic idea is that matrix multiplication is composing
linear maps. So we have one linear map that takes you from one vector space to another.
And then we follow that up with a second linear map that comes from the codomain of the first map
into another vector space. So here I have written
down two linear transformations S goes from R^4 to R^2 and T
goes from R^3 to R^4. So what this means
is that we can chain these together in the following way. So T
Starts in R^3 and produces something in
R^4. So I'm going to label this with a T here,
but S takes things in R^4 and produces things.
R^2. So we can take a vector in R^3, apply
T to it to produce a vector in R^4 and to that resulting vector, we can apply S to
it and produce a vector in R^2. So this means we get a
composition map, going from R^3 to R^4
which is S composed with T.
At first glance, that might seem a little bit backwards,
but remember where these are compositions of functions and when we think about applying
functions, we apply from right to left. So if we are gonna take a vector and plug this in first,
we plug it into T and then we would take the result and plug it in to S.
So if we're talking about multiplying matrices, what we really want to do is by definition
just write down the standard matrix for the composition map. So our composition map
here is S composed with T. So the standard matrix for S
composed with T is going to be the matrix A B by definition.
So. My pen
A, B. Is the standard matrix.
of S composed T -- put a nice box around this because that
is the definition of
multiplying these matrices. All right. So how do we actually do this?
So the standard matrix, the columns are just given by what happens to
our standard basis vectors. So all we have to do is figure out what the map S composed
withT does to our standard basis vectors. So let's start
with our first standard basis vector e1.
So we're going to take e1. First we're gonna plug it into T. And whatever we get out of there, we're gonna plug into S.
So the good news is that it's very easy to plug into T. We just have to look at the first column
of the standard matrix for T and the standard matrix for T we call
B. So all we have to do is write down the first column
of B here. So 1 -1 2 3.
And now we're going to take
that resulting vector, 1 -1 2 3, and plug it in to S.
So remember, what this means is we're doing a linear combination of the columns of the standard matrix
for S because this vector 1 -1 2 3 is a linear
combination of our standard basis vectors. So that says we need to do one times the first column.
The standard matrix of S which we are calling A. So the first column of A
and then minus one times the second column.
And plus, two times the third column (which is 0 4)
And plus three times the last column.
2 -2. So now we just have to do a little
bit of arithmetic here. So on the top, I think we get a five
on the bottom I believe we get four.
So that's gonna be the first column of our Matrix A B. Maybe I'll
change colors and write this over here,
So AB --  the first
column is 5 4.
To get the second column, we need to apply our map S composed with T
to our second standard basis vector. So
remember to figure out what T does to e2. We're just gonna look at the second column
of B up there, which  is 0 1 4 5.
4 by.
And to figure out what S does to 0 1 4 5 0, that'll be 0 times the first column
of A. So 0 times 2 1.
Plus, one times the second column, 3 -1
plus four times the third column, 0 4
and plus five times that last column.
2 -2. Once
again, we do a little bit of arithmetic. And we get
13 5. So that is going to be
our second column of The Matrix
AB.
The domain of our composition map was R^3, so we've got one more basis vector
to go, which means our matrix A.B is going to have one more column.
So first we'll take e3 and plug it into T. So we're looking at
the third column of our Matrix B now.
Looks like we have 6, 7, 8, 9.
Now, that says we'll do six times the first column of A -- 2 1,
plus 7 times the second column.
3 -1 plus eight times the third column.
0 4. And nine times
the last column 2 -2.
And here we get fifty one and the top spot and 13
in the second spot.
So that is our third column of AB.
51 13
So that is how we multiply two matrices.
So I want to note a couple of things about this. So one,
we can't always multiply two matrices. So one of the key things that had to happen
was the codomain of our map T had to be the same as the domain of
our map. S What that means for our matrices is that the number
of columns of A which is telling us the dimension of
the domain of S had to match up with the number of rows of B
which is telling us the coodomain of T. So those have both have to be the same. In this case
4, telling us the codomain of T and the domain of S or both R^4.
The other thing I want to noteis that as soon as we draw this picture up here, then we
know what size are Matrix A B is going to be. So the
domain is R^3, which tells us we're going to have three columns because we're going to have a
column for every basis vector of our domain. And the codomain is going to
be well, codomain is R^2, but the number of rows is going to
be two because remember, each column is an output vector of this.
So each column better have be an element of our R2. So we are guaranteed to have exactly two
rows.